[Blog] MUI X late v6 blog post (#39700)
mui/material-ui: docs/pages/blog/mui-x-end-v6-features.md

---
title: MUI X v6.20.0 and the final touches to reach LTS.
description: New components, polished features better performance and more.
date: 2023-11-13T00:00:00.000Z
authors: ['josefreitas']
card: false
tags: ['MUI X', 'News']
---

<a href="https://github.com/mui/mui-x/releases/tag/v6.20.0">

>   <img src="/static/blog/mui-x-end-v6-features/intro.png" alt="open release page" width="1384" height="346" style="margin-bottom: 16px;" />

Reviewer: The image needs to be updated 🙂

Author: We're working on a new one ^^

  - [New examples](#new-examples)
  - [Performance improvements](#performance-improvements)
- [What's next](#whats-next)
- [Feedback](#feedback)

## New stable components

### Charts

The stable version of MUI X charts supports the most commonly used chart plots you'll need in your day-to-day applications.

Featuring lines, areas, bars, pie charts and scatter plots, the latest versions also include:

- **Bar charts animations**
  <video preload="metadata" style="margin-bottom: 16px;" autoplay muted loop playsinline width="680" height="306">
    <source src="/static/blog/mui-x-end-v6-features/bar-chart-animations.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>

- **Horizontal Bar Chart Support**:
  Recently added, the horizontal bars can broaden your data visualization spectrum. Especially when you need to display long labels for multiple categories. Check out the [layout documentation](https://mui.com/x/react-charts/bars/#layout) for more details.

- **Improved Text Customization**:
  Customize the legend text to your heart's content, making your charts more readable and visually
  appealing.

> Get started with charts [now!](https://mui.com/x/react-charts/#getting-started)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Get started with charts now!](https://mui.com/x/react-charts/#getting-started)
```

### Tree view

After an extensive period of development and refinement in the lab and pre-release packages, and with the invaluable feedback we've received from you, the community, we're happy to share that the package is now officially stable!

<video preload="metadata" style="margin-bottom: 10px;" autoplay muted loop playsinline width="680" height="400">
  <source src="/static/blog/mui-x-end-v6-features/tree-view-gmail.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

> Get started with tree view [now!](https://mui.com/x/react-tree-view/getting-started/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Get started with tree view now!](https://mui.com/x/react-tree-view/getting-started/)
```

Learn more details at [column autosizing section](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/column-dimensions/#autosizing).

<video preload="metadata" style="margin-bottom: 10px;" autoplay muted loop playsinline width="680" height="128">
  <source src="/static/blog/mui-x-end-v6-features/column-auto-sizing.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

### New examples

We're continuously improving our docs, and we're starting to add more advanced examples like [bulk editing](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/recipes-editing/#bulk-editing) and [lazy loading for tree data](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/tree-data/#children-lazy-loading).

### Performance improvements

In our pursuit to enhance user experience, one of the most significant changes in latest v6 versions are related to performance boosts on filtering and scrolling.
In the following charts, you can see the difference of current version compare with v5 LTS.

#### Filtering

[missing comparison charts]

#### Scrolling

[missing comparison charts]

## What's next?

We're now working on the next MUI X major, v7, which will include many new features and improvements.

Most notably:

> - DateTime- and TimeRange

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `TimeRangePicker` and `DateTimeRangePicker`
```

Is this what you meant?

> - Improved accessibility on date and time fields
> - New UI for column management for the DataGrid
> - Pivoting for the DataGridPremium

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improved accessibility on date and time fields
- New UI for column management for the [`DataGrid`](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid)
- Pivoting for the [`DataGridPremium`](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/#premium-plan)
```

For the new components, we will keep expanding our portfolio with new chart types such as [Heat map](https://mui.com/x/react-charts/heat-map/), [Funnel](https://mui.com/x/react-charts/funnel/), [Gantt](https://mui.com/x/react-charts/gantt/), and explore virtualization and other advanced use cases for Tree view.

We encourage you to upvote issues on GitHub to help us prioritize. Your input directly influences our development schedule, so don't hesitate to let us know what matters most to you!
You can use the following list for quick access to each components issues.

> - [charts](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22component%3A+charts%22+label%3A%22waiting+for+%F0%9F%91%8D%22)
> - [tree view](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22component%3A+treeview%22+label%3A%22waiting+for+%F0%9F%91%8D%22)
> - [data grid](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22component%3A+data+grid%22+label%3A%22waiting+for+%F0%9F%91%8D%22)
> - [data and time pickers](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22component%3A+pickers%22+label%3A%22waiting+for+%F0%9F%91%8D%22)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Charts](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22component%3A+charts%22+label%3A%22waiting+for+%F0%9F%91%8D%22)
- [Tree View](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22component%3A+treeview%22+label%3A%22waiting+for+%F0%9F%91%8D%22)
- [Data Grid](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22component%3A+data+grid%22+label%3A%22waiting+for+%F0%9F%91%8D%22)
- [Date and Time pickers](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22component%3A+pickers%22+label%3A%22waiting+for+%F0%9F%91%8D%22)
```

As per https://www.notion.so/mui-org/Writing-style-guide-2a957a4168a54d47b14bae026d06a24b?pvs=4#3b58a114caf34e34a6c7918cbab8eeb7

---
title: MUI X v6.18.0 and the latest features before the next major
description: New components, polished features, better performance and more.
date: 2023-11-13T00:00:00.000Z
authors: ['josefreitas']
card: false
tags: ['MUI X', 'News']
---

<div style="max-width:680px;width: 100%; height: 170px; overflow: hidden; margin-bottom: 16px;">
  <a href="https://github.com/mui/mui-x/releases/tag/v6.18.0">
    <img src="/static/blog/mui-x-end-v6-features/intro.png" alt="open v6.18.0 release page" style="width: 100%; height: 100%; object-fit: cover; object-position: center;" />
  </a>
</div>

We are happy to share the newest MUI X features, marking the release of [MUI X v6.18.0](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/releases/tag/v6.18.0) and sealing v6 with new components and solid functionalities.

> As we gear up to develop the next major version, let's review the notable new features introduced since our last [blog post](https://mui.com/blog/mui-x-mid-v6-features/).

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: Could probably use a relative link here.
```suggestion
As we gear up to develop the next major version, let's review the notable new features introduced since our last [blog post](/blog/mui-x-mid-v6-features/).
```

  - [Customization Playgrounds](#customization-playgrounds)
- [Data Grid](#data-grid)
  - [Column Autosizing](#column-autosizing) [<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')
  - [New examples](#new-examples)
  - [Sparkline as a column type](#sparkline-as-a-column-type)
  - [Performance improvements](#performance-improvements)
- [What's next](#whats-next)
- [Feedback](#feedback)

## New stable components

### Charts

The stable version of MUI X charts supports the most commonly used chart plots you'll need in your day-to-day applications.

Featuring lines, areas, bars, pie charts and scatter plots, the latest versions also include:

- **Animations**

  Animations on bars, pie charts, and more to come.

  <video preload="metadata" style="margin-bottom: 16px;" autoplay muted loop playsinline width="680" height="306">
    <source src="/static/blog/mui-x-end-v6-features/bar-chart-animations.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>

- **Horizontal Bar Chart Support**

  Recently added, the horizontal bars can broaden your data visualization spectrum, especially when you need to display long labels for multiple categories.

>   Check out Bar's [layout documentation](https://mui.com/x/react-charts/bars/#layout) for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Check out Bar's [layout documentation](/x/react-charts/bars/#layout) for more details.
```

- **Improved Text Customization**

  Customize the legend text to your heart's content, making your charts more readable and visually
  appealing.

> Get started with charts [now!](https://mui.com/x/react-charts/#getting-started)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get started with charts [now](/x/react-charts/#getting-started)!
```

### Tree view

After an extensive period of development and refinement in the lab and pre-release packages, and with the invaluable feedback we've received from you, the community, we're happy to share that the package is now officially stable!

<video preload="metadata" style="margin-bottom: 10px;" autoplay muted loop playsinline width="680" height="400">
  <source src="/static/blog/mui-x-end-v6-features/tree-view-gmail.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

> Get started with tree view [now!](https://mui.com/x/react-tree-view/getting-started/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get started with tree view [now](/x/react-tree-view/getting-started/)!
```

## Date Pickers

### Smoothened animations

> The animations have been smoothened, especially on Android devices, ensuring a more fluid user experience.

Reviewer 2: Are you referring to https://github.com/mui/mui-x/pull/9864? 🤔 
In this case, it's probably not the most correct formulation, but it won't hurt. 👌 
In short, we simply fixed an issue where animations were reduced by default on all Android devices.

### Clearable Field

A much-anticipated feature, the date and time fields now allow users to clear a selected date with a single click.

> You can learn how to customize and other details at the [clearable behavior documentation](https://mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/fields/#clearable-behavior).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can learn how to use it at the [clearable behavior documentation](/x/react-date-pickers/fields/#clearable-behavior).
```

</video>

### New examples

We're continuously improving our docs, and we're starting to add more advanced examples like [bulk editing](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/recipes-editing/#bulk-editing) and [lazy loading for tree data](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/tree-data/#children-lazy-loading).

### Sparkline as a column type

Based on `@mui/x-charts` package, you can now add sparkline columns to your Data Grid.

<img src="/static/blog/mui-x-end-v6-features/sparkline-datagrid.png" alt="Sparkline on data grid" width="658" height="305" style="margin-bottom: 16px;" />

For more details on sparkline and other custom columns, please visit the [documentation page](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/custom-columns/#sparkline).

### Performance improvements

In our pursuit to enhance user experience, one of the most significant changes in latest v6 versions are related to performance boosts on filtering and scrolling.

To illustrate some of these improvements, the following table display a benchmark comparing the latest v5 (v5.17.26) with v6.18.0. The focus is to assess the raw filtering speed in a use case involving a one-column string filter over 100,000 rows.

> <table border="0" style="text-align:center">

Reviewer 3: Reverted in #40057.

> <table border="0" style="text-align:center">

Reviewer 2: Thanks! 💯 🤦

  <tr>
    <th>Version</th>
    <th>N# of Tests</th>
    <th>Min time (ms)</th>
    <th>Max time (ms)</th>
    <th>Median (ms)</th>
    <th>Average (ms)</th>
    <th>Std Deviation</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>v5.17.26</td>
    <td>22</td>
    <td>396</td>
    <td>409</td>
    <td>400</td>
    <td>400.7</td>
    <td>3.96</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>v6.18.0</td>
    <td>20</td>
    <td>44</td>
    <td>66</td>
    <td>49.5</td>
    <td>50.4</td>
    <td>5.63</td>
  </tr>
</table>

As we can see, the current version operates 7.9 times faster; the average time has dropped from 400.7 milliseconds in the previous version to just 50.4 milliseconds in the current one.

:::info
Note that these results are based on raw filtering speed, and not end-to-end operation (which includes user typing, filtering and rerender).
:::

## What's next?

We're now working on the next MUI X major, v7, which will include many new features and improvements.

Most notably:

- DateTime- and TimeRangePicker
- Improved accessibility on date and time fields

> - New UI for column management for the [`DataGrid`](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- New UI for column management for the [`DataGrid`](/x/react-data-grid/)
```

For the new components, we will keep expanding our portfolio with new chart types such as [Heat map](https://mui.com/x/react-charts/heat-map/), [Funnel](https://mui.com/x/react-charts/funnel/), [Gantt](https://mui.com/x/react-charts/gantt/), and explore virtualization and other advanced use cases for Tree view.

We encourage you to upvote issues on GitHub to help us prioritize. Your input directly influences our development schedule, so don't hesitate to let us know what matters most to you!
You can use the following list for quick access to each components issues.

- [Charts](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22component%3A+charts%22+label%3A%22waiting+for+%F0%9F%91%8D%22)
- [Tree View](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22component%3A+treeview%22+label%3A%22waiting+for+%F0%9F%91%8D%22)
- [Data Grid](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22component%3A+data+grid%22+label%3A%22waiting+for+%F0%9F%91%8D%22)
- [Date and Time pickers](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22component%3A+pickers%22+label%3A%22waiting+for+%F0%9F%91%8D%22)

> The next major release (v7) will be available through alpha and beta versions until March 2024, when it's planned for it to be officially promoted to the new stable version. At the same time, v6 will transition to [Long-Term Support](https://mui.com/versions/#long-term-support-lts), while support for v5 will be discontinued.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next major release (v7) will be available through alpha and beta versions until March 2024, when it's planned for it to be officially promoted to the new stable version. At the same time, v6 will transition to [Long-Term Support](/versions/#long-term-support-lts), while support for v5 will be discontinued.
```
